Alicia Noedel: Afternoon. Good.
Afternoon.
Alicia Noedel: How are you doing today.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can't complain
Alicia Noedel: That's good.
Gwenevere Abriel: You complain
Alicia Noedel: All right.
Alicia Noedel: Not too bad.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You wiped off all that makeup huh
Alicia Noedel: Yep.
Gwenevere Abriel: And find you've had it on twice.
Alicia Noedel: Trying to get back into living like a normal person.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, let me open up a note here.
Gwenevere Abriel: So how, how have you, what's your mood been over the last week. What would you say your, your, your mood has been overall
Alicia Noedel: I'm positive.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that right
Alicia Noedel: I've been doing pretty good this week. Yeah, I've been trying to
Alicia Noedel: Like let things go and and not let things affect me so much.
Alicia Noedel: After our conversation.
Gwenevere Abriel: What did you think a group he did you kind of get something out of that.
Alicia Noedel: Oh, yeah, yeah. Um, I, I've thought about how the first thing that came to mind is what my triggers used to be things that made me want to use
Alicia Noedel: In the past where, you know, like my abusive relationship with my ex and and then I realized that, um, you know, the problems that I was having with my mom made me want to use to because it made me, you know, go back to that place as a kid.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah. And I just, you know, I didn't want to feel like that.
Alicia Noedel: Um, I mean, it still happens. I still have that trigger you know unfortunately I live with her.
Alicia Noedel: Um, most of the time, we're good.
Alicia Noedel: But, um, I do get that thought that's what away biggest triggers.
Alicia Noedel: Is her
Gwenevere Abriel: And what was the experience of of making contact with other group members, what, how are you feeling in group as its evolving.
Alicia Noedel: Um, I love our group, I really do. I love all the people in it. I think we have a great dynamic and we have a lot of diversity in lifestyle.
Alicia Noedel: So I think that that, um, you know, is a good thing is a really good thing.
You to
Gwenevere Abriel: Where you guys were great in your ability to talk to one another. It's nice to see that happen.
Alicia Noedel: And as we can really related with Ariel.
Alicia Noedel: A her problems. She was having because the exact same thing that happens to me.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's spend today.
Gwenevere Abriel: Reviewing it's sort of this monthly thing I need to do. Where I review your goals. Just make little statements doesn't have to be a big paragraph, but a little something.
Gwenevere Abriel: About how you're doing with them.
Gwenevere Abriel: So right now I'm just kind of putting in the time and then we'll update
How you doing with your goals.
Gwenevere Abriel: Pm
Gwenevere Abriel: And I have I had someone fixed my phone ish they set this Wi Fi. So it is functioning better
Gwenevere Abriel: I was able to send you a reminder. That's kind of nice huh
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, oh I had missed it until like seven and I was like, shoot. And I sent you a text, but um
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh my gosh yeah guy got his
Alicia Noedel: Phone has been so weird to
Gwenevere Abriel: Look at got to me at
Alicia Noedel: Oh my gosh that was while we were in the meat like while I was waiting to get in the meeting.
Alicia Noedel: That's insane. I'm so sorry.
Gwenevere Abriel: I just wanted to show you. I'm like, I'm not making it up like it is just the black hole of no Wi Fi.
Alicia Noedel: And that's one of those things to where like you hear your phone go off at like four in the morning. You think it's something like negative and urgent, you know that you need to check your phone right away. I'm so Sparky.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's okay, you guys can call me anytime you want to. Because I have it on. Do Not Disturb unfortunately I won't be able to do anything like in a in a 24 hour period. I turn the phone on Do Not Disturb so I can get back to you, but it won't be right away. I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Texting text me anytime. I'll have it on, do not disturb you can do that, fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it does mean I can't pick it up right away and
Alicia Noedel: You know, you have to go
Gwenevere Abriel: See room or something.
Alicia Noedel: Oh, of course. Yeah, yours very busy. I'm sure you always have something to do
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's let's scoot down here to your goals, what we get.
Gwenevere Abriel: We have I wanted, I want to be able to cope with my trauma and future problems better. What a fantastic goal.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me hear from you. On May 29 that's today. What do you think, how are you doing with I want to be able to cope with my trauma better
Alicia Noedel: Um,
Alicia Noedel: I think that since I've had help with wasn't I've had you in my life that has made
Alicia Noedel: So much progress and it doesn't seem out of reach anymore.
Alicia Noedel: Oh, you know, I feel like I'm capable of of it happening, you know, completely one day, you know, but I don't feel hopeless anywhere about it.
Alicia Noedel: Uh huh. I realized I don't just have to accept that I, you know, horrible things happen to me and my life is going to be horrible because of it. That's not how it needs to be.
Gwenevere Abriel: I wrote that down. That is great. I like it. There's hope and this work we're doing is is benefiting because it does sound like for example this week. Yeah, yeah. She was got under your skin. But in a lot of ways it was an okay week right wasn't this big
Alicia Noedel: Emotional
Alicia Noedel: Roller Coaster or Friday, we had a Friday. Last Friday, we had a boiling point. And because the whole week I just felt like me and her were butting heads and everything she she does this thing where she nitpicks at everything I do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Alicia Noedel: So like this is wrong. Then she doesn't do it every day. But like sometimes she'll be like, all the whole day she'll say like
Alicia Noedel: Every like almost everything I do like she'd be like, Why don't you do that, why aren't you doing that, like that or you know with, you know, cleaning with my daughter with whatever and
Alicia Noedel: So for like the past three nights before that me and her were arguing arguing arguing and like same time every night.
Alicia Noedel: And then Friday I I just couldn't take it anymore. And it got into an argument. It didn't escalate crazy. We didn't weren't yelling at each other. But we did get into a little speck
Can I hear
Alicia Noedel: Ya.
Alicia Noedel: It was just something small, but I was still kind of raw from the whole like every single day like and still with the like whole get over it thing.
Alicia Noedel: And so she's saying something about how we need to help more like as if we don't do any, like, it made me feel like we don't do anything like with the housework and stuff, which I clean every single day. But I guess you know to her. It's like we're not doing much
Alicia Noedel: And so
Alicia Noedel: It's that I'm trying to talk to, because she's dwells on things. So she wants to, like, take one thing where you can just say it and be done with it and she starts stretching it out. And so can you get
Gwenevere Abriel: The sounds interesting. I'd like to know more about an example of that.
Alicia Noedel: Um, so like she'd be like, it's not that hard. You see, the thing I really like
Alicia Noedel: More. It's not that hard. I'm really stressed and like, that's fine you but then it starts to be like, you know, you need to make sure that walking and doing what he needs to do. And it just caught like way too personal like and something that's so small doesn't need to be so drawn out
Alicia Noedel: After I already said okay, understand, that's fine. Okay. Um, so she kept on you know saying you don't you think, don't you think, and then she was like, Why aren't you talking to me because I just
Alicia Noedel: Shut down rather than arguing. I didn't want to argue. So I just was doing I was making brownies. So I just kind of like was focusing on orders doing. And she goes, talk to me and I just looked up and I just, you know, started to tear up and I was just like, I don't want to talk
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Alicia Noedel: About this
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, right there, slow down the pace a little bit. I don't want to talk about this and
Gwenevere Abriel: Then what did she say
Alicia Noedel: She said, Why not, and I told her, these past few days every single night. You've been getting like this and I don't know what I did to you. I don't know what's wrong. I don't know why you're so angry with me.
Alicia Noedel: I'm
Alicia Noedel: Okay, can bench.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, can I try to predict what she said.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I haven't been angry all I was doing was asking you to help out more.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, I mean, I don't see how I i
Alicia Noedel: Mean
Gwenevere Abriel: That's right, it's predictable that's and I didn't even know what it was. That's how predictable. This is you bet when when you set your boundary. And you said, I don't want to talk about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You caved
Gwenevere Abriel: Why not, she said.
Gwenevere Abriel: You owe me nothing you owe her nothing as an explanation.
Gwenevere Abriel: Know that it would stay with that. Just let it sit there because you're probably like, oh yeah, but we're in her house. She's helping us with soda I O or an explanation, I have to tell her, but sit with it a little longer.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't think you owe me an explanation for why
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't want to talk you owe me nothing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Why do you owe her an explanation to justify your adult
Gwenevere Abriel: Behavior.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, you owe her because you already said, I don't want to talk that was your limit.
Gwenevere Abriel: But UK
Alicia Noedel: And I've already said okay you know i i to me. I was switch, you know, but she has this way.
Alicia Noedel: Of pushing a button to make you talk, you know, like saying something to you to make you argue with her. It's like as if she wants to argument, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's, let's
Alicia Noedel: Let's last word kind of thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, let's leave on the table for now is the hypothesis that she wants to fight.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because just for now. It may not be true, but just for this argument a discussion up just for today, because for some people.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's connection.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's sad, but it's better than the quiet that you were doing the the no talking for many people, that sense of isolation, when you were quiet and kind of May, she may have felt ignored.
Gwenevere Abriel: She would probably fall unconscious rather be fighting
Alicia Noedel: Like that's worse than a spat we shutting down and not feeding into it.
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's I'm taking the position of her because if you're trying to wrap your head around. Why, why did she do this because some people, and she may or may not be one of these folks. They would rather have that argument.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because, at least, it shows you're invested and you care enough to argue. You know how people have said right you'll know there's a real problem and I stopped arguing
Gwenevere Abriel: Fighting for us anymore. It's kind of like that so that make that healthy but my point is that there may be that going on. So she may feel this sense of abandonment.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you disappear and you do your healthy boundary setting. So I'm not asking you to change. I'm taking the position of her so you can kind of wrap your head around.
Gwenevere Abriel: Why would someone do it. Why would someone pick a fight, good grief. It's like I already said okay, why does she keep going, going, going, going, that might be an explanation.
Alicia Noedel: I mean that that it really does sound you know like what it could be.
Alicia Noedel: She, she's it's also like so weird because she is very argumentative but then she'll
Alicia Noedel: Like once the argument gets to where you're making valid points and she doesn't want to hear it anymore. She can always you know be louder than you or just walk away and not want to listen, you know, in a different way of being silent.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's stick. Let's stick with this. Let's stick with this little interaction, this one that you just you brought up, which is
Gwenevere Abriel: You need to help more and she carried on with it and got into what keen needs to do this and this and this and you were feeling what when she did that.
Alicia Noedel: Attacked okay yeah
Alicia Noedel: And as he
Alicia Noedel: Is so you know he doesn't do anything anybody
Alicia Noedel: felt like it was coming out of nowhere.
Gwenevere Abriel: Ah, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Notice you did the part about healthy detachment, you did the healthy detachment. You set a boundary. You stayed quiet and I think, in and of itself. That's pretty cool. Um, but it does have a consequence, though, because you're changing the recipe for mom.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And she's going to need you to be upset.
Gwenevere Abriel: And going to need you to justify your behavior.
Gwenevere Abriel: What just in your imagination, what do you think would have happened if you kept repeating that and not escalating your tone. But if you just said you know what mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: I HEARD YOU EARLIER, YOU WANT US TO HELP OUT MORE
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel like
Gwenevere Abriel: I heard you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, but why, why are you been ignoring me, you know, she might say or what what's going on. You look angry. Like what would she say
Alicia Noedel: She would just be like,
Alicia Noedel: A
Alicia Noedel: While the one helps me I need help. No one ever helps me like she always true to say that, but like I'm constantly doing things all the time. Okay. And if I take one day to rest and relax. It's like the end of the world, but
Alicia Noedel: It's, it's like
Alicia Noedel: It's like
Alicia Noedel: I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, so here's the thing, if she says no one helps me in your head, you were already thinking I do, I do these 10 things she's just being irrational. Is that kind of how it went in your head.
Alicia Noedel: Um, I mean, I can understand like that she gets overwhelmed with things. But it's like you can't just, you know, go into the kitchen at 910 o'clock at night and decide that you don't like that. There's a few dishes and freak out.
Alicia Noedel: Because I'm not cleaning at 11 o'clock at night.
Alicia Noedel: And it's like, she does these little things like um you know that song. I forgot what it's called burritos help. I need somebody
Alicia Noedel: To put that on her phone playing and she kept on like going like this to God.
Alicia Noedel: Like just
Alicia Noedel: Subliminal like you know passive aggressiveness.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes. Yeah, it really is.
Alicia Noedel: Okay. And I didn't know if I was overreacting, or
Alicia Noedel: Not when like I didn't know if I was really the bad guy in the situation or if I had a right to be like, you know, why are you being like this because she always has a way of making me feel like I'm real like I like I should just, you know, submit
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so why don't. We'll do a little I'm not everybody, but I'm somebody we could just kind of see if what you're talking about.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll have an opinion, it's not the only opinion but if so if the it's different for every family and you have sort of this blending going on right now right you have what you would probably do in your own place. And then how mom likes it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the the 11 O'clock thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Her reaction.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is she. Are you saying that she walked around the house and said, Who likes the dishes in here. Nobody helps thing. Oh my gosh. No one helps me help. I need somebody help and places music and prayed like this. That's what she did.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that was theatrical and way, way over the top.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that was about her.
Gwenevere Abriel: That was nothing about you. Now, if the context is that your mother had calmly come to you and said,
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, like guys for 24 hours. I don't want to see a single fork butter knife peanut butter spoon in sync. Not 24 hours so y'all hand wash them. You have your car you hand wash those babies put away. I just want my eyes to see nothing on the surface.
Alicia Noedel: Just want to know it's understandable, but because I like
Gwenevere Abriel: My whole thing to oh wait, did she say that though so you know now that that's different. If we say listen
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a request, I just for a little bit. Let's just be super tiny. I'm starting to feel a little unraveled
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of need clean space, then I have a clean mind. Let me just have nothing out of order for just a little bit. Now we can go back to just everyone still having some chaos, but
Gwenevere Abriel: I just, I kind of just need it, then they are now you've got something. If you said yes. No problem. Each of us and then someone forgot, and left the bowl from a snack.
Alicia Noedel: So that's what it that's what that's what it is, is like two months ago, um, you know, we had a conversation where it was the calm version of what it was, you know, Can you guys please help more
Alicia Noedel: Okay. And, you know, walking
Alicia Noedel: You know, didn't take out the trash for like a week and you know I did it. And it's not like it's not being done, it's just someone else did it.
Alicia Noedel: And so that's when that yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: She does not like that. She doesn't like that you do it.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, she she uses the excuse that you know she feels bad for me when we do in all reality. He's helping me all the time. She just doesn't see him physically doing it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me how he helps you
Alicia Noedel: He cleans my the room tidy up the room for the everyday because he knows that I, you know, focus on the kitchen. A lot. Um, he does the dogs mess. He cleans up the dogs messes. The, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Accidents
Alicia Noedel: He does the be cleans up the living room because he's in there, a lot. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so here's, here's what I wonder my my my curiosity is how is it that she doesn't have that information and I have it.
Alicia Noedel: doesn't ask or doesn't. I don't know.
Alicia Noedel: Maybe just doesn't want to see. I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: nobody's told her.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I'll leave it with me. You can let her know
Gwenevere Abriel: You can not saying that she's going to change anything. Remember, we can't change what other people are doing. But we can share with other people, our logic, if they want to be logical for 20 minutes, that'd be great.
Gwenevere Abriel: We can say, well, you know, for me, Joaquin is just just picking up where I'm increasing all of this focus in the kitchen. So that's on me with the dishes. I didn't think about 11pm but
Gwenevere Abriel: He's he takes care of the dog accidents in the you can't see it so much. Mom, but he takes care of the bedroom while I'm going into the kitchen.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so for me I we don't see what keane's helping behavior, the same because Watkins helping is kind of behind closed doors to you, Mom, you may not see it but it means a lot to me what he's doing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Some on what's it like for you to think that you're, you know, I'm being taken advantage of mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: See, that's the question. Right. It's a versus defending it's what's going on for you, mom like
Gwenevere Abriel: Because you own your truth and you happen to share it. You could not share that and say what what's going on. Mom, you really
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't want me to be taken advantage of. It looks like huh
Gwenevere Abriel: What's that about what what's your concern here.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, I mean, I try to get her to open up and talk about you know what's really the problem when things like when little things blow up like what's really bothering you, because I know that this isn't it. This isn't the reason why you're so upset.
Alicia Noedel: Right. Um, and she just doesn't open up. She can't she doesn't, you know, like he said she doesn't have those coping mechanisms. She doesn't
Alicia Noedel: She can't. So it's just like nothing, there's nothing wrong. It's just that you're not doing that or just that the problem that we're speaking about, like, it's there is something deeper. I know that.
Alicia Noedel: But I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: An accepted the job that we just accept people's answers. Oh, okay. You go, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're going, you're done. It's done.
Gwenevere Abriel: You share perspective, didn't you, I really see what King is doing these things. And I'm so grateful to him. I really feel like a solid partner.
Alicia Noedel: And Mom, what's going on for
Gwenevere Abriel: You around this and she says, Nothing. Oh, okay. And you just, well, there's your answer.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, it's hard for me though. Like when she gets like that when she gets very like uppity
Alicia Noedel: It's, it's hard for me to communicate like an adult, because I start to feel like a little kid again. Like, like I'm being attacked you know and like
Alicia Noedel: I'm not allowed to speak because I wasn't allowed to talk back. I was just supposed to sit there and listen.
Alicia Noedel: So, you know, I, I just, it's scary for me like I like you know i i'm so my, you know, my mom is already like, so she's disabled. You know, like she you know i know that she couldn't hurt me if she wanted to, you know, and it's horrible that I'm still scared of her
Alicia Noedel: I'm still scared of her
Alicia Noedel: And so I don't know how to like I've been thinking about leaving. I want to move to Pueblo, Colorado. I want to move out of New Mexico.
Alicia Noedel: I don't want to leave my family, but like I can't
Alicia Noedel: I don't know if it's just the Korean team being stuck in this House, you know, with everyone. The whole time. It's like, I don't want to live here. I want to be somewhere else.
Gwenevere Abriel: I, I get it. It makes sense and
Gwenevere Abriel: All that is true.
Gwenevere Abriel: Context, it's everybody's amplified right I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, the intensity ships. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It isn't going to happen today.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. So, no, no, it's important just not immediately urgent but protecting your psychological well being, is urgent, I do think that's urgent and i think i think that when you say instead of moving away because notice right away and you tried to move away by just being quiet. Yeah.
Alicia Noedel: I've been distancing myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: And she's noticing.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want, I just, you got to keep it real for me if you said to your mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: This may not make any sense to you, long but
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm I'm scared. I get afraid I'm afraid.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe that
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, this is from
Gwenevere Abriel: A long, long time ago, but I still have the
Gwenevere Abriel: Same response as if I'm a little girl. As soon as we start to argue. So if you ever see me kind of get quiet or whatever.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to just kind of go take care of myself and I'm going to, I'm going to just, it's not about you, it's about sort of me taking care of myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: So if I do walk out of the room. I kind of just want some quiet time to collect myself. Would that be okay, Mom.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah.
Alicia Noedel: I mean, I think we have good progress because the next morning, you know, it took the whole next morning for us to speak about it.
Alicia Noedel: And we, you know, we talked about it we hugged it out. We both cried, whatever. But, uh, there was over an apology. If there's never, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's
Alicia Noedel: A sorry for picking a fight, you know, even if the reason why you fought with you was a justifiable reason
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me give you a little warning about those apologies. You may think that's what you want.
Gwenevere Abriel: But here's the problem.
Gwenevere Abriel: I leave lots of room to be wrong. So I could be wrong wrong wrong wrong wrong. But the thing about the apology is she may apologize and go do the same thing she did the day before you may get the apology you think you're looking for, but it might not be the apology that you want.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sincere know you might actually want her to behave
Gwenevere Abriel: Differently differently. Yeah, instead of an empty apology.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: I just want to reef affirm that when you said this, don't really want to talk right now that was reasonable. We all do that that's a limit setting and if she said, why, why don't you want to talk right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: What can you say to me.
What can we do
Alicia Noedel: I just don't want this to turn into something bigger than it is. And maybe we can talk about it when both of us are a little less heated so that things don't escalate BECAUSE I JUST SHUT DOWN WHEN WE FIGHT AND IT GETS INTENSE.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your response is genuine and it's beautiful it's long.
Alicia Noedel: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: No, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: We're going to slow way down here. So what it's it's a compliment. And it's also a warning. One of the only problem with long is you have words that I can pick out
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, you're the one that escalates it you see you gave me so many words I can find one of them to pick at
Gwenevere Abriel: If you see if you keep. I love the explanation I like because I like knowing kind of what's going on for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: But
Gwenevere Abriel: For someone who doesn't want to hear any version of know
Gwenevere Abriel: You gave me a lot of a lot of words that I some of those I could pick out and I could pick a fight with you over.
Gwenevere Abriel: Instead of just watch this. The technique is he just repeat yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: You just repeat it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I just I just really don't want to talk right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, why
Gwenevere Abriel: I just don't want to talk. I'm gonna go
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of chill in my room for a bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: You see the difference. I
Gwenevere Abriel: Stick to what I said.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's less to remember and you're not giving the listener, a long explanation, so they can find something to then
Gwenevere Abriel: argue about that and then argue about that then you try and set your boundary again and they argue about that part needs such a boundary again and they don't care about your boundary
Gwenevere Abriel: Right person that pays attention to the boundary is going to be you.
Gwenevere Abriel: They will only know it over, days, weeks, months, and years of you resetting it.
Gwenevere Abriel: It will be you.
Gwenevere Abriel: She will continue to not see it time and time again.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you will reset it. And eventually, eventually, she'll get it.
Alicia Noedel: Hopefully,
Gwenevere Abriel: Or
Gwenevere Abriel: Not and you'll feel more comfortable setting it it'll become natural. Oh, I don't have time right now. How about tomorrow. How about it this time. You'll get it'll get smoother. It'll be less anxious and more playful and it won't be this heart wrenching thing.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, it was just, it was a lot easier when we have problems like that when I wasn't living here, like it was face to face, face to face, then it gets so much more part
Gwenevere Abriel: You can add this if you want to add this, you could say something like, you know what mom I know both of our intentions are good.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't want to talk about it right now. It's important. Maybe we could pick this up tomorrow. I'm just, I'm in a lot of distress right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and you just walk out. I know. Or I imagine our intentions are both good now. She doesn't have to be offended. You don't have to write. I know our intentions are. I imagine our intentions are good.
Gwenevere Abriel: What are your thoughts on that.
Alicia Noedel: That's amazing. I think that is what they need, because they don't know what to say. That's why. Yeah, I don't know, it's a so I feel like that, you know, there's no room for finding anything wrong with it.
Alicia Noedel: Uh huh. And, you know, even though I don't have to explain anything. It just is like, you know, because she knows that I have hard days that I don't want to do anything like that. And so I feel like that would help. Okay.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: He just sees that, you know, I didn't invent them these came from many, many different places. But look what it does its intention is create safety because in the absence of safety.
Gwenevere Abriel: What we do
Gwenevere Abriel: We get angry we defend ourselves or right someone starts attacking. So if we create safety, we're more likely to kind of chill.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what that does.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it presupposes it's the most generous of assumptions which is
Gwenevere Abriel: You know what mom I am I imagine your intent is really good and minus two.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'd like to talk about it tomorrow morning if we can. I'm just gonna go rest for a little while.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're an adult woman.
Yeah.
Alicia Noedel: I think that's one thing that she has a hard time dealing with
Alicia Noedel: I'm not a kid anymore and I, you know, you can
Alicia Noedel: Boss me around, you know, if I'm so nice. I'm so willing to help out, you know, asking me is all that it takes
I have
Gwenevere Abriel: So you can you may know that intellectually, but remember what you said about five minutes ago. I feel like a little girl. Yes, he like a little girl who feel like a girl so
Alicia Noedel: You know what, extremely treats me like a charm.
Gwenevere Abriel: So take a look at how
I
Gwenevere Abriel: Do I have
Gwenevere Abriel: an expectation that you will be able to handle whatever it is that I bring to the table, or do you end up feeling like you're treated like a little girl in here. Be honest with me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you feel okay. Well, good, because I see your capability and I meet you there.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the difference. I see. It's in there and I'll meet you there.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't see what's missing what's missing what's missing and what you can do for me what you can do for me and I don't see the wound that I've caused you you and your mother have a
Gwenevere Abriel: One story. I don't have that with you. I can see the adults and
Gwenevere Abriel: I can see your strengths
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not a threat to me. You know what I'm saying, like men, none of that's there. So I can see as an adult.
Gwenevere Abriel: She can't
Gwenevere Abriel: And I don't know the pathology there but
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to have to see yourself as an adult and it's going to be scary and hard
Gwenevere Abriel: But you're asking your mother to see it in you before you see it in you.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, it is hard to figure it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, so right you're used to do in this getting your, your data from the outside. You saw this in group to
Gwenevere Abriel: It's your data has who you are is determined by how you being treated in any given moment, that means it's going to fluctuate, and it's going to be changing and roller coaster ride. But if instead you get into the breath, and you feel how you feel.
Gwenevere Abriel: Feel your little foot on the floor, you feel your body feel your. Oh, wait a minute, I'm, I'm an adult woman I'm a woman.
Gwenevere Abriel: Get back in here. Stop getting your data from the outside about who you are.
Gwenevere Abriel: How you feel inside this is how I physically am in my body.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm a woman I'm all I'm, I'm a grown up. I'm an adult. Right, I feel that a minute.
Gwenevere Abriel: How am I feeling emotionally overwhelmed and sad getting triggered from something old, because this is a stupid ditch and dislikes. There's something bigger must write this be going on.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so now what do I want and quietly in your mind. Well, what do I want, I need to go refuel I need to be alone for a little bit. I need to set a boundary. Okay. Oh, there. Now I go outside and look at her.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know what mom I'm going through something right now. I, I know both of us we have good intentions yours as well, I imagine. And mine, too. And I just can't talk right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: We talked about it.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah.
Alicia Noedel: It's so good for me to have something to say when
Alicia Noedel: Because I, I feel like I there's always something to be picked up.
Alicia Noedel: ends up making it worse.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's do at least three real quick scenarios. And this is pretty pretty common. A lot of people, they need to just have these words right in the forefront of their mind so that they're ready.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not alone. This is people need this. We've got to have that stuff fresh in our mind so that we know what to say. So that if we're caught off guard. We've got something memorized.
Alicia Noedel: Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's role play
Gwenevere Abriel: What's give me two things worse things that could be said to you that will trigger that that inner little girl that vulnerable sad helpless. I can't speak. I have no voice.
Alicia Noedel: You're worthless. You always want to
Alicia Noedel: Sit. You always want to fuck around. You never want to do anything in this House, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Beautiful and another one.
Alicia Noedel: I'm
Alicia Noedel: Everything. It's just more just being ignored.
Alicia Noedel: Really watching TV, leave me alone. Yeah, okay. Like if I'm speaking trying to like if I'm excited. Like I would come home from school and be like my I got something really cool to tell you
Alicia Noedel: And it would just completely zoned into the TV like completely ignoring me for it and then telling me to get all the room that
Gwenevere Abriel: Actually was busy.
Gwenevere Abriel: I remember that when actually, I've got one of those. I think in our in the temperature one. How does that show up. Now, when you're living with your now.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can try and catch it, that same thing shows up in a subtle way, maybe even her back is turned or even her face is turned away. It can be a trigger for that. Whereas the shop now.
Alicia Noedel: I mean, she's still kinda does that. Oh, except for telling me you know to leave or the fuck alone, like she used to
Gwenevere Abriel: Now she just says I'm watching TV.
Alicia Noedel: Or she'll be on her phone. And she just won't see anything. She just completely ignore me that's, you know, and then below what like 10 minutes later.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I would look like this. So I'm like this, you would see me and how would it go
Alicia Noedel: Watching something like a video or something.
Gwenevere Abriel: How would you be trying to engage me, how would it sound.
Alicia Noedel: Come up in the room, y'all. Hey, Mom. I found this really cool thing I wanted to show you on the internet or something or whatever article
Alicia Noedel: Of something I know is her interests.
Gwenevere Abriel: Look at me, this whole time. So, do it again. But this time, don't look away.
Alicia Noedel: Hey, I found something really cool. I wanted to show you
Gwenevere Abriel: So, does she do this where she turns her head toward you like that. No. Okay, so it looks. It's this she just keeps her eyes down
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, it's like I'm not even there.
Alicia Noedel: It's like I didn't never even said anything.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and then later on, she'll say what
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay. Got it.
Alicia Noedel: And then you get mad at me for
Alicia Noedel: getting upset.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: OK.
Gwenevere Abriel: Ok give me a third one.
Alicia Noedel: I'm
Alicia Noedel: Tired.
Gwenevere Abriel: This might be enough.
Alicia Noedel: Me asking me for asking me to do something I asking me to do something. And if I don't like to jump up and do it that very second I'm I'm ignoring her and I don't want to help.
Gwenevere Abriel: You. But what does she say
Alicia Noedel: Never mind. I'll just do it, or she'll just start doing it like she asked me, you know, to clean the bathroom and so I'll be like, Okay, let me just finish you know i'll be literally like doing something that's, you know, important like let me just finish doing this.
Alicia Noedel: And, you know, if it's not being started within you know two minutes of her asking me
Alicia Noedel: You know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I get it.
Alicia Noedel: Then she starts to do it herself angrily. So like bombing things
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I got it.
Alicia Noedel: I guess. And it's like, I wish that if she wanted it done, you know, right, then in there to tell me because I would you know I wouldn't think that I have all day to do it because it's not like I'm doing anything. You know, like be having to leave the house or anything.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's let's get into it, let's do this. Let's do
Gwenevere Abriel: Which one you want to do. We're going to do a role play. You want to do the you're worthless. You want to do the ignoring because I'm watching it on my phone, or just never mind and slam clunk slang crash and I'm in the bathroom, which one
Gwenevere Abriel: The last one. Okay.
Alicia Noedel: Oh, great. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That one bugs me a lot.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So do you have your pen and paper.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, I have my yes I do.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we've probably done this before, but let's get one we're gonna have
Alicia Noedel: A pen randomly.
Gwenevere Abriel: So first thing
Gwenevere Abriel: I want you to put feel but feel. I mean by body is not not emotion. Feel the first word sequence of events for you to memorize is feel, but you want to put felt sense, which means whatever it is for you to remember that it's how the body's doing so for me it's felt sense
Gwenevere Abriel: That comes out of this medic somatic transformation work. So there's adult sense there's
Gwenevere Abriel: Just heard my mother's voice so your as soon as you hear your mother's voice My guess is your body's going to have a response to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm guessing there's so much history back there, that it's going to have some either tension is going to happen. Something is going to happen as soon as you hear her voice.
Alicia Noedel: It's the tone. Yeah, the way it depends how she comes to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's right.
Alicia Noedel: So the way she says, My name, whether I know
Alicia Noedel: It's a good thing or bad thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me hear that. Let me hear your name on that tone. Let me just hear how it sounds. So I can do it.
Alicia Noedel: In the negative way.
Yeah.
Alicia Noedel: So usually, she would just be an alley or baby. But if it was negative, she would
Alicia Noedel: Call me Alice
Gwenevere Abriel: Say it like she says it
Gwenevere Abriel: Alice
Alicia Noedel: Yeah.
Like desperation.
Gwenevere Abriel: Was that close.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so it's loud. It's a really high. It's pretty high, high in pitch to whereas Allie, it's lower yeah it's lower in volume and it's it's slower and it's it's not as high screechy it doesn't have a screech to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Alicia Noedel: Got it would be followed by stomping rather than just coming towards me would be
Alicia Noedel: Hard. Hard something. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So here's you've got written down, you've got feel that's the body and then you have breeze write that down.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then you have mirror
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then we'll do this word validate, but what you already know, let's do what you already know. Let's do the
Gwenevere Abriel: The intent because you like that. Let's do
Gwenevere Abriel: The, the word with write this down. I imagine
Gwenevere Abriel: Because that's the memorize thing. I imagine we both want the same thing here. I imagine that we both want to feel good. I imagine we both have really good intent.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know we want the best for I imagine we want the best for it's that phrase, I imagine.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then short and sweet. So the first one, you're probably not going to even be able to say a word. You ready for that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's right on time, because this might feel overwhelming, but that doesn't mean you didn't do it right. It means you did it right, because first time we do a role play it's you're just going to be freaked out.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's okay. And then we start again and we'll review, we'll do it again, it's okay that you don't remember anything when you get flooded with those feelings. So I'm just letting you know there's no way for you to do this wrong.
Alicia Noedel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And there's no way
Alicia Noedel: So I'm just supposed to respond in a healthy way here.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to look down on paper, you're going to cheat your way through the first one, you're gonna cheat cheat cheat with a cheat sheet going to have it right in front of you and you don't even have to look at me. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Pay attention to your body.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's all you have to do on the first one, then you're going to inhale through the nose, big belly breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to breathe this beautiful nourishing breath into your body and then your brain will work.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then you'll mirror and I don't think I taught you mirroring and but it's basically say the words back like a mirror, mirror doesn't interpret doesn't defend it says, oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: You're a female with granting strings glasses and a white shirt. It doesn't say you're a brunette with lush thick hair big puffy lips, you know and and you know you're you're six feet tall. It doesn't it mirrors what is
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's a very specific thing, but just for now. That's basically what it is. So it would be something like
Gwenevere Abriel: So, mom, what you're saying is you're finding me worthless and
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm always fucking around
Gwenevere Abriel: I literally say back verbally what they said to me, but I do it in a nice tone.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not most my allies. This just go with me here. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know what this person is going to say, we'll see.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then we say, well, I imagine our intent is both good here. I know we both want to clean house. I know we both kind of want to have disharmony in this home. We've talked about it this weekend.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's validation. I know our intent is good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is loving and I know we both one sort of the same thing. So I imagine we want the same things. So I'm throwing a lot at you at least if we only get one piece of this, that's fine. Okay, we'll keep working on
Gwenevere Abriel: So the first part is I'm going to, I'm going to start, I'm going to walk off screen. I'm going to come on and you're going to be looking at your piece of paper, you can cheat. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can draw a little picture of a body.
Gwenevere Abriel: How is it feeling soon as you hear my voice. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alice
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you clean that bathroom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so how are we doing
Oh,
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, it's spot on ahead, um,
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, a kind of froze up
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, good. How far did you get, did you notice the body at all, or as soon as you heard my froze.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, no, I, I noticed. Yeah.
Alicia Noedel: I get
Alicia Noedel: Really tense on
Alicia Noedel: On my stomach ache. My stomach starts to get really nervous. I feel my shoulders. They kind of like in the back like tense up and do the thing where I call my toes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Toes toes.
Oh, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, go, go. Which one is got the loudest message to you to stomach shoulder with the loudest message to your stomach. Yeah, absolutely. That's our intuition. That's our gut response. That's where we we have a sense of I belong. This is a pretty important messenger
Gwenevere Abriel: So go there and breathe into it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And reassure that tummy.
Gwenevere Abriel: That you're not in physical danger.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your body is responding to perceived threat.
Gwenevere Abriel: Will not be in perceived threat once you relax the muscles.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can feel safe.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your body can relax the muscles.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's just a perception of threat. It's all this can be
Gwenevere Abriel: There's no actual danger of life and limb.
Alicia Noedel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then you're going to remember that piece of paper. So we've got maybe draw an image of a body. Maybe the tummy. Draw the tummy because I drew one
Gwenevere Abriel: I put a little circle shoulders and the tummy and I put toes.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're, you're going to need to remember to check into your gut. So when you as soon as you hear my voice. I'm going to check in your see how you're feeling. So remember to breathe into it and to say to self and then maybe we'll do some will add self talk self talk
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: With that do it for you. With that, that thought work to bring you to center.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we're going to add that one. So after breathe, you'll go to self talk. I'm okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now what's that supposed to do is is meaning I'm in
Gwenevere Abriel: an overreaction to perceived threat and I look around, right, I mean, there's more steps to this, I guess there's lots of pieces. You're not actually in danger. You already told me she's not going to throw something in the bathroom and she's not going to slap you punch you kick you.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, but we've got to remind the body about that. We've got to remind it that we're not in danger. So, okay, means I'm not in danger, my body's just responding to an old
Gwenevere Abriel: Awaited perceived threat.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's see if we can get that far. And then would be great. I don't know that. We'll get to it, it would be. You want me to clean the bathroom right, Mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, but I don't think we're going to get that for everyone to see what happens. Look at your cheat sheet. Look at you'll have to look at me just cheat cheat cheat.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alice
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you clean the bathroom.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah.
Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: Nevermind. I'm already doing it.
Gwenevere Abriel: How'd you do
Alicia Noedel: I mean, I almost got to, you know, explain explanation, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: When I was coming on.
Alicia Noedel: Yeah, I got like
Alicia Noedel: You know, it's like, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Wait, so
Gwenevere Abriel: If I hadn't started slamming things in the bathroom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you remember how did you feel your tummy.
Alicia Noedel: It went back into like the
Alicia Noedel: To the scared mode again. Yeah. So I went from like feeling myself to to, like, oh shit, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: So yours might be, maybe you won't move out of breathing for a while, you might stay there for like 10 cycles.
Gwenevere Abriel: You might have to get safe. It might take long longer than one breath. It might take 20 I don't care how long it takes. I need you to feel safe before you go back out out out there before you say a word. She can clunk around who cares. Let her clean the bathroom.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's the bathroom, who cares.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Alicia Noedel: I need you and approachability
Gwenevere Abriel: Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: I need you to feel safe. I don't care how many dishes are uncleaned and bathrooms are clean. I need you to feel safe with you and in your environment. And if it takes sitting there for 10 minutes breathing, then fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not going to go anywhere until you are okay that you have a sense of, I'm safe that nothing else can happen until you have a sense of safety.
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Soon as you hear that screeching voice. If it isn't alley maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: If it isn't, that if it's up there, you get in your body get it in it and breathe.
Gwenevere Abriel: She comes in and says, well, weirdo thing are you doing you say just breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's the truth.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you persevere.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you just keep breathing. Okay, nothing else can happen until you're safe.
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, I think right where we are. This is some pretty good stuff. Let's have transcribed the following three things to work on next time. Number one,
Gwenevere Abriel: We're going to role play, quote, unquote. You're worthless. You always want to fuck around. Number two, mother, standing with eyes fixed on phone while being approached by daughter.
Gwenevere Abriel: And followed up by passive aggressive behavior, including statement of gets. Why are you getting so upset over this. And number three, a statement of request to do something, but not immediately getting up and doing it which is responded by passive aggressive hostile
Gwenevere Abriel: task completion. We have some self regulation steps.
Gwenevere Abriel: Which are
Gwenevere Abriel: We have focus on body as felt sense, followed by Daya for matic breathing several of them until safety is felt, and then we have
Alicia Noedel: One two stars there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yep, and self talk of I'm okay. I'm okay. I'm okay. I'm okay. I'm okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm okay. I'm okay. I'm okay. I'm okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm okay. I'm okay. I'm okay okay in your head over and over and over.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. And then we have mirroring which we, I can teach that that sometimes take I throw it at you, but it can take as many as two or three sessions so
Gwenevere Abriel: I just throw it out there. See if it, if it was a thing that you already kind of knew so no worries. I'll go into that in more depth and then followed by
Gwenevere Abriel: The validation, so we can get into felt sense breathing self talk mirror validation, we can get into that later but for now, the concept is nothing else can happen until I feel okay
Gwenevere Abriel: And the worst thing that anyone can say is what weirdo thing are you doing right now. Right. I'm just say you're breathing. I'm getting centered
Gwenevere Abriel: That has to be okay for the rest of us. You taking care of yourself is really okay
Okay.
Alicia Noedel: Good.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, I will see you Monday, same time, like, eight o'clock.
Alicia Noedel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: That work. Yeah. Oh, it's a good quick follow up to. I like it. Now I get how things went with the breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Thank you. You bet.
Alicia Noedel: Bye for now because you agree Friday. Bye.